---
name: 정송이(Jung, Song-yi)
image: images/songyi.jpg
role: phd
affiliation: 한국학중앙연구원(AKS)
aliases:
  - Song-yi Jung
links:
  home-page: https://dh.aks.ac.kr/~songyi/wiki/index.php/대문
  email: songi113@hanmail.net
  orcid: 0009-0002-8141-766X
  ISNI: 0000000511224859
  국가연구자번호(IRIS+KRI): 13093705
---
# **정송이**

한국학중앙연구원 인문정보학과 박사과정생
JUST DO IT.
home-page: https://dh.aks.ac.kr/~songyi/wiki/index.php/대문
email: songi113@hanmail.net/ songi8812@gmail.com
orcid: 0009-0002-8141-766X
ISNI: 0000000511224859
국가연구자번호(IRIS+KRI): 13093705
---
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

## 학력 사항/Education
* 박사과정생: 한국학중앙연구원 한국학대학원 인문정보학 / 수료생 (2023.03.~)
* 석사: 한국학중앙연구원 한국학대학원 인문정보학 / 문학 석사 (2020.03.~2022.02.)
* 석사: 용인대학교 문화재대학원 고고미술사학과 / 미술사 석사 (2013.03.~2015.08.)
* 학사: 용인대학교 문화재보존학과 / 문화재보존학 학사 (2007.03.~2012.02.)

* Ph.D. Candidate, Department of Human Informatics, The Graduate School of Korean Studies, The Academy of Korean Studies, Seongnam, Korea
  * March 2023 – Present
* M.A., Department of Human Informatics, The Graduate School of Korean Studies, The Academy of Korean Studies, Seongnam, Korea
  * March 2020 – February 2022
* M.A., Department of Archaeological Art History (Major: Art History, Buddhist Sculpture), Graduate School of Cultural Heritage, Yong In University, Yongin, Korea
  * March 2013 – August 2015
* B.A., Department of Cultural Heritage Conservation, Yong In University, Yongin, Korea
  * March 2007 – February 2012

## 관심 연구 분야/Research Interests
* 디지털 인문학(디지털 미술사), Digital Humanities (Digital Art History)
* 국가유산 데이터 설계 및 구축, Cultural Heritage Data Design and Modeling
* 국가유산 데이터 분석 및 시각화, Cultural Heritage Data Analysis and Visualization
* 한국미술사(불교조각사: 통일신라), Korean Art History (Buddhist Sculpture History)

## 경력/Professional Experience
* **연구원**, 한국학중앙연구원, 디지털인문학연구소, 2023.09 ~
* **연구원**, 동국대학교 불교학술원, K-Buddhism Cultural Content Platform Development Project, 2022.03 ~ 2023.08.
* **조연구원**, 한국학중앙연구원, 디지털인문학연구소, 2020.03 ~ 2022.02.
* **학예연구사**, 불국사박물관, 2015.05 ~ 2018.12.
* **연구원**, 용인대학교박물관, 2013.03 ~ 2015.02.
  
* Researcher, Digital Humanities Research Institute, The Academy of Korean Studies
  * September 2023 – Present
* Researcher, K-Buddhism Cultural Content Platform Development Project, The Academy of Buddhist Studies, Dongguk University
  * March 2022 – August 2023
* Research Assistant, Digital Humanities Research Institute, The Academy of Korean Studies
  * March 2020 – February 2022
* Curator, Bulguksa Museum
  * May 2015 – December 2018
* Researcher, Yong In University Museum
  * March 2013 – February 2015

## 학술논문/Publications
* Jung Song-yi, Kim, Baro. "A Study on the Design and Utilization of XML Data Based on the Documents of the Government-General Museum of Korea - Focusing on Multi-Classification Systems and Internal/External Data Integration -." The Journal of Humanities 96 (February 2025). The Institute of Humanities at Sungkyunkwan University. http://dx.doi.org/10.31310/HUM.096.06
* Jung Song-yi. "Digital Literacy in Korean Art History Education in the Digital Transformation Era." The Korean Journal of Literacy Research 16 (February 2025). The Korean Literacy Association. https://doi.org/10.37736/KJLR.2025.02.16.1.09
* Jung Song-yi. "Meta Archive in the fields of arts and culture." Journal of Korean Museum Studies 45 (June 2023). The Korean Society of Museum Studies. https://doi.org/10.22884/joksms.45.202306.009
* Jung Song-yi. "Stone Standing Maitreya Bodhisattva of Gamsansa Temple in Gyeongju and Kim Ji-Sung's Buddhist Beliefs." The Journal of Art History 38 (August 2019). The Korean Society of Art History Education. https://doi.org/10.14769/jkaahe.2019.08.38.173

## 학술발표/Conference Presentations
* Jung Song-yi, Kim, Baro. "A Study on Data Model Design for an Integrated Database of Korean Buddhism based on the Unified Tripitaka Koreana." The 12th World Congress of Korean Studies, VNU University of Languages and International Studies, Hanoi, Vietnam. October 18, 2024.
* Jung Song-yi. "A Model for a Meta-Archive of Joseon Dynasty Ceramic Artifacts and its Metaverse Implementation." The 47th Annual Conference of the Korean Museum Association & The 16th International Museum Conference of Korea. May 22, 2022.
* Jung Song-yi. "A Study on the Standing Stone Maitreya Bodhisattva of Gamsan-sa Temple and the Buddhist Thought of Kim Jiseong." The 57th Autumn Conference of the Korean Society of Art History Education. November 3, 2018.

## 연구사업/Research Projects
* Research Assistant, A Study on Building a Platform for Generating Multilingual and Multi-layered Cultural Heritage Descriptions for AI Smart Docents: Focusing on Joseon Dynasty Buddhist Paintings. (AKSR2025-RE08). (PI: Kim, Baro). September 2025 – February 2026.
* Principal Investigator, National Research Foundation of Korea Grant for Ph.D. Candidates in Humanities and Social Sciences, 2023. (2023S1A5B5A19094050). September 2023 – August 2025.
* Research Assistant, Analysis of Precedent Models and Development of Educational Content for Designing Ancient Document Data. (AKSR2024-RE02). The Academy of Korean Studies. (PI: Kim, Baro). March 2023 – Present.
* Research Assistant, Exploration and Education of Precedent Ontology Models for Building a Korean Studies Semantic Web. (AKSR2023-RE07). The Academy of Korean Studies. (PI: Kim, Baro). September 2022 – February 2023.
* Co-researcher, Building a Digital Archive of Jang Deuk-jin's Photographs for the Encyclopedia of Korean Culture. The Academy of Korean Studies. (PI: Kim, Hyun). August 2021 – December 2021.
* Co-researcher, Production of Online Exhibition Content for Gyeonggi Provincial Museum 2021. Gyeonggi Cultural Foundation. (PI: Kim, Hyun). July 2021 – December 2021.
* Co-researcher, Support for Drafting Explanatory Texts for Cultural Heritage Signboards 2021. The Federation of Korean Cultural Heritage Utilization Organizations. (PI: Kim, Hyun). March 2021 – June 2021.
* Research Assistant, A Study on AI-based Semantic Information System and Utilization of Eastern Classics: Focusing on the Database Construction of Allusions on Palace Signboards. The Institute of Traditional Culture. (PI: Kim, Hyun). October 2020 – December 2020.
* Co-researcher, A Study on Building a Meta-Archive of Public Museums in Gyeonggi-do. Gyeonggi Cultural Foundation, Gyeonggi Provincial Museum. (PI: Kim, Hyun). August 2020 – December 2020.

## 자격증 및 수료증/Certifications
* Certificate of Completion, 2024 Digital Humanities Winter School, Digital Convergence Talent Development Project for Humanities and Social Sciences, January 19, 2024.
* Certificate of Completion, Professional Training Course for New Curator Certificate Holders, National Museum of Korea, November 27, 2015.
* Level 3 Certified Curator, Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, October 21, 2015.

## 도서/Books
* (Co-author). Bulguksa: The Inaugural Exhibition of the Bulguksa Museum [Exhibition Catalogue]. Bulguksa Museum, 2018.


## 수여/Awards
* Excellence Award, 2023 National Museum of Korea Idea Contest for the Younger Generation, National Museum of Korea, September 5, 2023.


